I'm going to show you a cheese crusted
whole-wheat scones and to save a little
bit of time I started off here with
three ounces of whole wheat flour 3
ounces of self-raising flour and a
teaspoon of baking powder and I've
rubbed in one ounce of butter - the
crumbly stage just one ounce of butter
or margarine whichever you want and now
I'm going to add a few more things a
couple of pinches of cayenne pepper
which give it a nice sort of zestiness
to it and another nice flavoring here is
half a teaspoon full of mustard powder
which adds another little bit of zest
and then here I've got three ounces of
strong grated cheddar cheese I say
strong because it's good for the flavor
of scones if it's nice and strong and
I'm just going to put 2/3 of that cheese
in the mixture and use the rest later so
mix the cheese in with the rest of the
mixture and then the liquid I'm going to
add is a large egg and that's beaten up
with two tablespoons of milk and so I'll
start off by adding that to the dry
ingredients and just tell you to have
some extra milk handy because you never
know when you're cooking with flour just
how much liquid you're going to need and
if that isn't enough you might need a
little bit more liquid which indeed I
think we're going to so we'll just dive
into the milk here and have think almost
a tablespoonful I'll see how we get on
with that you can do it as much as you
can with a wooden spoon and then just
finish off as usual with your hands what
you want to aim for is a nice soft dough
that leaves the bowl clean and still
still it's a bit dry as I said before
you can never really tell so we'll just
have a spot more milk in there again
just to take care of all those little
dry this
in the bottle and even a spot more I
think I'm going to be very particular
because I've got to show you how to roll
them out so they've got to be right
there we are that's just about what we
want now
transfer the dough onto a lightly
floured surface just shape it start off
by shaping it into a round and I'll just
tidy up my hands there and this is where
most people go wrong when they make
scones it's that they roll them out far
too thinly and then they don't come up
very high some people think they can't
make scones so the secret is I'll just
give my rolling pin a little bit
the secret is to roll the dough out to
not less than three-quarters of an inch
thick and if you're new to scone making
then why not just have a ruler there and
make sure you've got not less than
three-quarters of an inch thick when
you're rolling them out now when you're
cutting them out you need a two and a
quarter inch cutter and this will give
you about six or seven scones with this
mixture if you want to make more you can
just double the ingredients and to cut
them out you place the cutter lightly on
the dome like that and then just give it
a very sharp tap sorry about the noise
but that's the way to do it especially
with a thick dough like this and then
just ease the shape out of the cutter
and go on like that re rolling all the
scraps until you've got six or eight and
one important point about cutting
anything out scones biscuits is never do
that with the cutter because otherwise
they come out oval and not round the
next thing you do is you brush the top
of the scone with a little bit of milk
if you're making plain scones at this
stage it's nice to sprinkle them with
flour so that they
sort of Flowery and look homemade but
for these we're going to finish off the
cheese by sprinkling some cheese on the
top each scone will have a sprinkling of
cheese on the top and then another
little sprinkling of cayenne pepper if
you like sort of zesty things
now what scones need all scones cheese
or otherwise is a really hot oven place
them first of all on a well greased
baking sheet put them on the highest
shelf of an oven preheated to gas mark 7
that's 425 degrees and they'll take
about 15 or 20 minutes to cook